---
abbr: AEC
agency: Australian Electoral Commission
source_url: https://www.aec.gov.au/About_AEC/Publications/files/AEC-AI-Transparency-Statement.pdf
title: !!python/object/new:pypdf.generic._base.TextStringObject
  args:
  - Australian Electoral Commission Artificial Intelligence (AI) Transparency Statement
  state:
    _original_bytes: !!binary |
      QXVzdHJhbGlhbiBFbGVjdG9yYWwgQ29tbWlzc2lvbiBBcnRpZmljaWFsIEludGVsbGlnZW5jZSAo
      QUkpIFRyYW5zcGFyZW5jeSBTdGF0ZW1lbnQ=
    autodetect_pdfdocencoding: true
    autodetect_utf16: false
    utf16_bom: !!binary ""
---

Classification: OFFICIAL 
Australian Electoral Commission Artificial 
Intelligence (AI) Transparency Statement  
Background 
The Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) notes the Policy for the Responsible Use of AI in 
Government (the Policy) requires that relevant agencies, including the AEC, release a transparency 
statement providing information about their use of AI.  
Consistent with the Policy, the AEC has provided the Digital Transformation Agency a link to this 
statement on the AEC website.  
The Policy also requires the AEC to nominate an accountable official for the implementation of the 
Policy. The AEC’s AI Accountable Official is the First Assistant Commissioner, Enterprise 
Transformation Group. The AEC has also appointed the Chief Information Officer to the role of the 
Chief AI Officer in recognition of the fundamental shift that generative AI is bringing to government 
operations and as required in the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service.  
The AEC’s use of AI 
We have an internal policy on the use of AI by staff, which staff are required to follow when using 
AEC approved AI tools. This policy encourages and assists staff to:  
• not rely on the authenticity or veracity of content generated by AI, without human review 
• understand safe and responsible use of AI in accordance with Australia's AI ethics framework 
• not use AI as part of any AEC interaction with the public. 
The AEC also has an AI assurance assessment process in place to assess potential AI tools for use 
based on the Pilot Australian Government AI assurance framework. 
The AEC’s use of AI includes: 
• GitHub Copilot - GitHub Copilot is a generative AI tool for technical staff, designed to 
improve productivity and efficiency of software application development. 
• Microsoft 365 Copilot - The AEC is conducting a limited trial of Microsoft 365 Copilot 
(licensed version) for staff using their AEC corporate accounts to evaluate its potential for 
supporting corporate tasks and individual productivity tasks. As a prerequisite to using 
Microsoft 365 Copilot, AEC staff are required to complete internal training on the use of 
generative AI. The AEC’s use of Microsoft co-pilot makes certain high-volume, manual tasks 
quicker – this allows AEC staff to use more of their expertise on higher-value work and make 
more informed decisions.  
• Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat - By enabling Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat for all staff, the AEC is 
enhancing staff productivity and collaboration across teams.  In no way does the AEC’s use of 
Copilot replace AEC staff, their expertise or thorough consideration of their work. Protections 
are also in place to ensure it is a secure environment – it operates within Microsoft 365’s 
enterprise grade security controls and it is not used to train AI models. 
• Other – Some AEC staff have access to assistive and adaptive technologies such as  
speech-to-text software along with a limited number of staff in our graphical design area who 
use AI to generate educational images. 
 

OFFICIAL 
Key election operations – including voting and the counting process – are undertaken manually, in 
accordance with electoral law.  
The AEC uses AI in the following domain and usage pattern: 
• Domain: Corporate and enabling. The AEC’s current use relates to supporting corporate 
functions and improving operational efficiency. 
• Usage pattern: Workplace productivity. The AEC’s current use is for workplace productivity 
purposes. This includes summarising and analysing data and information, automating or 
reducing time spent on administrative tasks and supporting software application development. 
More information about usage patterns and domains is available at Classification system for AI use | 
digital.gov.au 
Identifying and protecting against risks to electoral integrity 
The AEC acknowledges the transformative potential of AI for society and government, including 
operational efficiencies and enhanced data analysis. The 2024 Australian Government trial of 
Microsoft 365 Copilot showed productivity improvements but also highlighted barriers, concerns, and 
risks associated with AI in government. 
Public trust in the AEC is crucial for maintaining confidence in electoral processes and results, which 
is essential for defending Australia's democracy. In a rapidly evolving digital landscape, meeting 
community and stakeholder expectations is increasingly complex. 
To maintain public confidence, the AEC emphasises the importance of transparency in how AI is 
used in its operations, security, and information systems as detailed above in "The AEC’s use of AI”. 
Third-party suppliers 
The AEC has processes in place to manage the potential use of AI by third-party suppliers. 
Agreements with third party providers contain confidentiality requirements that the provider is 
contractually required to adhere to. Where applicable, the AEC additionally requires all relevant 
provider personnel are Australian citizens and may require that personnel possess Australian 
Government security clearances at a level the AEC deems appropriate per-role.  
For applicable agreements (i.e. managed service arrangements), the AEC contractually requires that 
AEC data remains onshore in Australia.  
In cases where the provider is delivering an IT capability that processes AEC data, such solutions are 
subject to the AEC’s review and approval through its governance processes. Any potential utilisation 
of AI as part of such solutions would be identified as part of this process, including with respect to 
potential data sovereignty issues. 
Governance and legislation 
Governance Structure 
Senior Executive Committee (SEC): 
• overarching monitoring of performance, accountability, risk, and agency direction 
• chaired by the Australian Electoral Commissioner 

OFFICIAL 
• approves which AI tools can be used at the AEC in conjunction with the Investment 
Committee. 
Investment Committee: 
• security and risk considerations relating to AI use 
• strategic transformation and investment considerations relating to AI use. 
 
Advisory Audit Committee: 
• established under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (PGPA 
Act). 
Compliance with Legislation and Regulation 
• Privacy Act 1988: Regulates the collection, storage, and use of personal information by AI 
• Archives Act 1983: Governs records created by AI 
• Freedom of Information Act 1982: Provides public access to documents created by AI. 
Oversight and Audits 
• Compliance overseen by the SEC. 
• Internal audits are conducted to detect non-compliance. 
• The Regulatory Action Plan guides the AEC's approach to regulatory compliance, including 
application of the new AI Policy. 
Updates to this statement 
Consistent with the Policy for the Responsible Use of AI in Government, this statement will be 
updated at least once a year, or when the AEC makes a substantial change to the agency's approach 
to AI, or when any new factor materially impacts the existing statement's accuracy. This statement 
was updated on 9 February 2026 and is authorised by AEC’s AI Accountable Officer. 
Contact 
Enquires may be directed to media@aec.gov.au