---
abbr: FFMA
agency: Future Fund Management Agency
source_url: https://www.futurefund.gov.au/en/About-us/access-to-information/parliamentary-and-statutory-reporting
title: Future Fund | Parliamentary and statutory reporting
---

The Digital Transformation Agency's (“DTA”) [‘Policy for the responsible use of AI in government’ ](https://www.digital.gov.au/ai/ai-in-government-policy)(“the Policy”) outlines Australia's approach to leading Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) adoption responsibly, and works to ensure its safe and ethical use. Transparency about the use of AI, and the potential impact it can have on the public is key to building public trust and is a primary focus of the Policy.

In compliance with DTA’s requirement, the Future Fund Management Agency (“FFMA”) has published this AI Transparency Statement to explain our use of AI and the steps we have taken to ensure its safe application. FFMA maintains alignment with applicable laws, regulations and requirements as set out in the Policy, and monitors the effectiveness and responsible use of deployed AI technology through human oversight and governance-led review.

FFMA's definition of AI is informed by the guidelines provided by the DTA, as outlined in the Policy.

**How we utilise AI technology at FFMA**

FFMA seeks to leverage AI to enhance its operations and investment capabilities, where appropriate. The primary use of AI is in the domains of workplace productivity, corporate and enabling, as specified by the DTA, by providing tools that aid in coding, research, writing and routine tasks. This enables staff to focus more on high-value activities that align with FFMA's purpose of investing for the benefit of future generations of Australians.

An example of how FFMA uses AI is the introduction of a purpose-built digital collaboration tool. Recognising the need for a secure, tailored approach, this AI solution was developed in-house by the Agency to draw data from our proprietary information. This synthesises extensive amounts of information to deliver actionable insights within a protected environment.

**Public interactions**

This AI Transparency Statement describes how FFMA’s use of AI may affect public interactions with FFMA. FFMA engages with the public primarily through communications, such as:

• Annual reports: FFMA publishes detailed annual reports that outline investment performance, organisational strategies, and other insights into the performance and operations of FFMA.\
• Media releases: FFMA may issue press releases and publicly available statements to announce developments and updates on its performance, ensuring the public is informed about its activities.\
• Website: FFMA maintains an external website that offers access to reports, investment performance, legislation and governance related information, media updates and a careers portal.

FFMA does not have individual customers or clients. For transparency and communications with the public as noted above, if AI technologies are used, any output(s) generated by an AI technology are reviewed and checked by Agency staff.

**How to contact us about our use of AI**

For enquiries, please contact us using one of the options provided [here](https://www.futurefund.gov.au/en/contact-us).

This statement will be reviewed annually, when we make a significant change to our approach to AI, or when guidance from DTA is received that impacts this statement.

**_Published 28th of February 2026_**