---
abbr: TEQSA
agency: Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency
source_url: https://www.teqsa.gov.au/about-us/reporting-and-accountability/ai-transparency-statement
title: Artificial Intelligence (AI) transparency statement | Tertiary Education Quality
  and Standards Agency
---

#  Artificial Intelligence (AI) transparency statement 

TEQSA is committed to the safe and responsible use of artificial intelligence (AI). TEQSA acknowledges the opportunities AI offers to improve productivity and is committed to using AI in a manner that is accountable, transparent and maintains public confidence in our agency.

## TEQSA’s approach to AI

When considering the use of AI TEQSA will ensure any use follows the requirements of the Digital Transformation Agency’s [_Policy for the responsible use of AI in government_](https://www.digital.gov.au/ai/ai-in-government-policy).

## Why TEQSA is considering the adoption of AI

TEQSA is considering using AI to enhance its ability to efficiently protect student interests and uphold the reputation of Australia's higher education sector.

## How we use and are considering using AI

TEQSA will only use AI where it has been assessed and found to be safe, ethical and effective. Any risks associated with the use of AI will be assessed and managed in accordance with TEQSA’s broader risk framework and whole-of-government policies. TEQSA currently uses the limited AI capabilities of Microsoft productivity tools.

TEQSA is considering using Microsoft Copilot analytics functionality for insights and workplace productivity. The domains TEQSA is considering the use of AI in are corporate and enabling, and compliance and fraud detection.

TEQSA is not considering the adoption of AI for decision-making purposes. TEQSA is not considering the use of AI in a manner where a member of the public or a higher education provider would directly interact with, or be significantly impacted by, AI or its outputs without human review.

## How TEQSA will monitor the effectiveness of our AI use

TEQSA will monitor:

  * our staff completion rates for mandatory AI training
  * productivity impacts of AI use
  * data and analytical insights generated by AI use
  * the nature, circumstance and impacts of any AI incidents.

Based on the monitoring of AI effectiveness TEQSA will update its governance processes, guidance, policies and training to ensure AI use remains proportionate, safe and beneficial.

## Governance

We have established governance processes and forums to assess and review the use of AI. These include the establishment of an AI Steering Group (AISG) and appointment of an Accountable Official and a Chief AI Officer to oversee how TEQSA implements and uses AI. The functions of the AISG include:

  * promoting safe and responsible use of AI
  * overseeing the development of TEQSA’s AI policies and processes
  * setting-up and overseeing AI initiatives and pilots
  * developing pathways for staff, service providers and other stakeholders to report AI use concerns or incidents
  * overseeing development and implementation of mandatory AI capability training for all staff.

## Compliance

TEQSA will only use AI when doing so is in accordance with applicable legislation, frameworks, policies and best practice. Any AI initiatives will align with the APS values, and TEQSA delivery of public value.

## Who to contact about TEQSA’s statement

For any questions regarding this statement, or for more information about how TEQSA uses AI, please email [enquiries@teqsa.gov.au](mailto:enquiries@teqsa.gov.au).

###### Last updated: 

25 Mar 2026